# Jeff's feedback to project ideas

As we discussed, it sounds like you have decided to go
with the YARA project instead of the canaries. As a result,
I'm only going to respond to the YARA idea.

Overall, this looks good. It's a well scoped project
with a pretty good amount of room for extra features,
deeper exploration, etc.

Here, in no particular order, is a collection of
suggestions and observations.

- For the literature review, here are some things I would
want to know more about if I were you.
    - How are YARA rules constructed in the first place?
    - Do professional virus scanners use YARA? If so, how? Do they
        have proprietary rule sets? etc.
    - Are there industry standard techniques/benchmarks for
        evaluating the effectiveness of a rule or rule set?
    - ...

- One thing I'm not seeing in this project description is the
software that will take an executable and a set of YARA rules
as input and produce a report/score as output. Are you going to
use existing YARA libraries, or are you going to write your own?
Writing your own could be really interesting, and add depth to
your project. Alternatively, you could use existing YARA evaluators
and focus more of the group's energy on the reverse engineering
part of the project. I don't have a strong opinion about this,
but it's worth making some explicit decisions.

- I don't understand the reason for the "Run malware samples in
a sandboxed virtual machine" step under your testing methodology.
Are there YARA rules for malware behavior, or just for the actual
executable files? If it's the latter, then it's not clear there's
a reason for you to run the malware at all (other than curiosity).

- Next draft of your planning document will need to include a more
granular breakdown of the project into steps, and possibly a
preliminary assignment of responsibilities to team members.
